CHAPTER XX
And I saw an angel come down from heaven, having the key of the bottomless pit and a
great chain in his hand. And he laid hold on the dragon, that old serpent, which is
the devil and Satan, and bound him a thousand years, and cast him into the bottomless pit
and shut him up, and set a seal upon him, that he should deceive the nations no more
till the thousand years should be fulfilled. And after that he must be loosed a little
season. And I saw thrones, and they sat upon them, and judgment was given unto them. And
I saw the souls of them that were beheaded for the witness of Jesus, and for the word
of God, and which had not worshipped the beast neither his image, neither had received his
mark upon their foreheads, or in their hands. And they lived and reigned with Christ a thousand
years, but the rest of the dead lived not again until the thousand years were finished.
This is the first resurrection.
Blessed and holy is he that hath part in the first resurrection. On such the second death
hath no power. But they shall be priests of God and of Christ, and shall reign with
him a thousand years. And when the thousand years are expired, Satan shall be loosed out
of his prison, and shall go out to deceive the nations which are in the four quarters
of the earth, Gog and Magog, to gather them together to battle, the number of whom is
as the sand of the sea. And they went up on the breadth of the earth, and compassed the
city, and fire came down from God out of heaven, and devoured them. And the devil that deceived
them was cast into the lake of fire and brimstone, where the beast and the false prophet are,
and shall be tormented day and night, for ever and ever. And I saw a great white throne,
and him that sat on it, from whose face the earth and the heaven fled away, and there
was found no place for them. And I saw the dead, small and great, stand before God, and
the books were opened. And another book was opened, which is the Book of Life, and the
dead were judged out of those things which were written in the books according to their
works. And the sea gave up the dead which were in it, and death and hell delivered up
the dead which were in them, and they were judged every man according to their works.
And death and hell were cast into the lake of fire. This is the second death, and whosoever
was not found written in the Book of Life was cast into the lake of fire.